.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: Bug
assignees: ''

---

<!-- This issue tracker is only for technical issues related to Bitcoin Core.

General bitcoin questions and/or support requests are best directed to the Bitcoin StackExchange at https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com.

For reporting security issues, please read instructions at https://bitcoincore.org/en/contact/.

If the node is "stuck" during sync or giving "block checksum mismatch" errors, please ensure your hardware is stable by running memtest and observe CPU temperature with a load-test tool such as linpack before creating an issue! -->

<!-- Describe the issue -->

**Expected behavior**

<!--- What behavior did you expect? -->

**Actual behavior**

<!--- What was the actual behavior (provide screenshots if the issue is GUI-related)? -->

**To reproduce**

<!--- How reliably can you reproduce the issue, what are the steps to do so? -->

**System information**

<!-- What version of Bitcoin Core are you using, where did you get it (website, self-compiled, etc)? -->

<!-- What type of machine are you observing the error on (OS/CPU and disk type)? -->

<!-- GUI-related issue? What is your operating system and its version? If Linux, what is your desktop environment and graphical shell? -->

<!-- Any extra information that might be useful in the debugging process. -->
<!--- This is normally the contents of a `debug.log` or `config.log` file. Raw text or a link to a pastebin type site are preferred. -->

Commit message:

github: Add warning for bug reports
I've noticed the "Bug" label being added redundantly fairly frequently.
I think this might be due to github's templates.

All in all, the link in https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/new/choose
to open a regular issue is a bit hidden from sight. Direct people's
attention to it.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve (use this for suspected bugs only, if not sure, open a regular issue below)
title: ''
labels: Bug
assignees: ''

---

<!-- This issue tracker is only for technical issues related to Bitcoin Core.

General bitcoin questions and/or support requests are best directed to the Bitcoin StackExchange at https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com.

For reporting security issues, please read instructions at https://bitcoincore.org/en/contact/.

If the node is "stuck" during sync or giving "block checksum mismatch" errors, please ensure your hardware is stable by running memtest and observe CPU temperature with a load-test tool such as linpack before creating an issue! -->

<!-- Describe the issue -->

**Expected behavior**

<!--- What behavior did you expect? -->

**Actual behavior**

<!--- What was the actual behavior (provide screenshots if the issue is GUI-related)? -->

**To reproduce**

<!--- How reliably can you reproduce the issue, what are the steps to do so? -->

**System information**

<!-- What version of Bitcoin Core are you using, where did you get it (website, self-compiled, etc)? -->

<!-- What type of machine are you observing the error on (OS/CPU and disk type)? -->

<!-- GUI-related issue? What is your operating system and its version? If Linux, what is your desktop environment and graphical shell? -->

<!-- Any extra information that might be useful in the debugging process. -->
<!--- This is normally the contents of a `debug.log` or `config.log` file. Raw text or a link to a pastebin type site are preferred. -->
