doc/fuzzing.md, before:

Fuzz-testing Peercoin
==========================

A special test harness `test_peercoin_fuzzy` is provided to provide an easy
entry point for fuzzers and the like. In this document we'll describe how to
use it with AFL.

Building AFL
-------------

It is recommended to always use the latest version of afl:
```
wget http://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/afl/releases/afl-latest.tgz
tar -zxvf afl-latest.tgz
cd afl-<version>
make
export AFLPATH=$PWD
```

Instrumentation
----------------

To build Peercoin using AFL instrumentation (this assumes that the
`AFLPATH` was set as above):
```
./configure --disable-ccache --disable-shared --enable-tests CC=${AFLPATH}/afl-gcc CXX=${AFLPATH}/afl-g++
export AFL_HARDEN=1
cd src/
make test/test_peercoin_fuzzy
```
We disable ccache because we don't want to pollute the ccache with instrumented
objects, and similarly don't want to use non-instrumented cached objects linked
in.

The fuzzing can be sped up significantly (~200x) by using `afl-clang-fast` and
`afl-clang-fast++` in place of `afl-gcc` and `afl-g++` when compiling. When
compiling using `afl-clang-fast`/`afl-clang-fast++` the resulting
`test_peercoin_fuzzy` binary will be instrumented in such a way that the AFL
features "persistent mode" and "deferred forkserver" can be used. See
https://github.com/mcarpenter/afl/tree/master/llvm_mode for details.

Preparing fuzzing
------------------

AFL needs an input directory with examples, and an output directory where it
will place examples that it found. These can be anywhere in the file system,
we'll define environment variables to make it easy to reference them.

```
mkdir inputs
AFLIN=$PWD/inputs
mkdir outputs
AFLOUT=$PWD/outputs
```

Example inputs are available from:

- https://download.visucore.com/bitcoin/bitcoin_fuzzy_in.tar.xz
- http://strateman.ninja/fuzzing.tar.xz

Extract these (or other starting inputs) into the `inputs` directory before starting fuzzing.

Fuzzing
--------

To start the actual fuzzing use:
```
$AFLPATH/afl-fuzz -i ${AFLIN} -o ${AFLOUT} -m52 -- test/test_peercoin_fuzzy
```

You may have to change a few kernel parameters to test optimally - `afl-fuzz`
will print an error and suggestion if so.

Commit message:

build: Allow to configure --with-sanitizers=fuzzer

doc/fuzzing.md, after:

Fuzz-testing Peercoin
==========================

A special test harness `test_peercoin_fuzzy` is provided to provide an easy
entry point for fuzzers and the like. In this document we'll describe how to
use it with AFL and libFuzzer.

## AFL

### Building AFL

It is recommended to always use the latest version of afl:
```
wget http://lcamtuf.coredump.cx/afl/releases/afl-latest.tgz
tar -zxvf afl-latest.tgz
cd afl-<version>
make
export AFLPATH=$PWD
```

### Instrumentation

To build Peercoin using AFL instrumentation (this assumes that the
`AFLPATH` was set as above):
```
./configure --disable-ccache --disable-shared --enable-tests CC=${AFLPATH}/afl-gcc CXX=${AFLPATH}/afl-g++
export AFL_HARDEN=1
cd src/
make test/test_peercoin_fuzzy
```
We disable ccache because we don't want to pollute the ccache with instrumented
objects, and similarly don't want to use non-instrumented cached objects linked
in.

The fuzzing can be sped up significantly (~200x) by using `afl-clang-fast` and
`afl-clang-fast++` in place of `afl-gcc` and `afl-g++` when compiling. When
compiling using `afl-clang-fast`/`afl-clang-fast++` the resulting
`test_peercoin_fuzzy` binary will be instrumented in such a way that the AFL
features "persistent mode" and "deferred forkserver" can be used. See
https://github.com/mcarpenter/afl/tree/master/llvm_mode for details.

### Preparing fuzzing

AFL needs an input directory with examples, and an output directory where it
will place examples that it found. These can be anywhere in the file system,
we'll define environment variables to make it easy to reference them.

```
mkdir inputs
AFLIN=$PWD/inputs
mkdir outputs
AFLOUT=$PWD/outputs
```

Example inputs are available from:

- https://download.visucore.com/bitcoin/bitcoin_fuzzy_in.tar.xz
- http://strateman.ninja/fuzzing.tar.xz

Extract these (or other starting inputs) into the `inputs` directory before starting fuzzing.

### Fuzzing

To start the actual fuzzing use:
```
$AFLPATH/afl-fuzz -i ${AFLIN} -o ${AFLOUT} -m52 -- test/test_peercoin_fuzzy
```

You may have to change a few kernel parameters to test optimally - `afl-fuzz`
will print an error and suggestion if so.

## libFuzzer

A recent version of `clang`, the address sanitizer and libFuzzer is needed (all
found in the `compiler-rt` runtime libraries package).

To build the `test/test_bitcoin_fuzzy` executable run

```
./configure --disable-ccache --with-sanitizers=fuzzer,address CC=clang CXX=clang++
make
```

The fuzzer needs some inputs to work on, but the inputs or seeds can be used
interchangably between libFuzzer and AFL.

See https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html#running on how to run the libFuzzer
instrumented executable.
