.TH PPCOIN.CONF "5" "March 2016" "ppcoin.conf 5.2"
.SH NAME
ppcoin.conf \- peercoin configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
All command-line options (except for '-datadir' and '-conf') may be specified in a configuration file, and all configuration file options may also be specified on the command line. Command-line options override values set in the configuration file.
.TP
The configuration file is a list of 'setting=value' pairs, one per line, with optional comments starting with the '#' character.
.TP
The configuration file is not automatically created; you can create it using your favorite plain-text editor. By default, \fBppcoind\fR and the GUI client will look for a file named ppcoin.conf in the peercoin data directory, but both the data directory and the configuration file path may be changed using the '-datadir' and '-conf' command-line arguments.
.SH LOCATION
ppcoin.conf should be located in $HOME/.ppcoin
.SH NETWORK-RELATED SETTINGS
.TP
.TP
\fBtestnet=\fR[\fI'1'\fR|\fI'0'\fR]
Enable or disable run on the test network instead of the real peercoin network.
.TP
\fBproxy=\fR\fI'ip:port'\fR
Connect via a socks4 proxy.
.TP
\fBaddnode=\fR\fI'10.0.0.2:9901'\fR
Use as many \fBaddnode=\fR settings as you like to connect to specific peers.
.TP
\fBconnect=\fR\fI'10.0.0.1:9901'\fR
Use as many \fBconnect=\fR settings as you like to connect ONLY to specific peers.
.TP
\fBmaxconnections=\fR\fI'value'\fR
Maximum number of inbound+outbound connections.
.SH JSON-RPC OPTIONS
.TP
\fBserver=\fR[\fI'1'\fR|\fI'0'\fR]
Tells the GUI client to accept or not accept JSON-RPC commands.
.TP
\fBrpcuser=\fR\fI'username'\fR
You must set \fBrpcuser\fR to secure the JSON-RPC api.
.TP
\fBrpcpassword=\fR\fI'password'\fR
You must set \fBrpcpassword\fR to secure the JSON-RPC api.
.TP
\fBrpctimeout=\fR\fI'30'\fR
How many seconds to wait for a complete JSON-RPC HTTP request, after the HTTP connection is established.
.TP
\fBrpcallowip=\fR\fI'192.168.1.*'\fR
By default, only RPC connections from localhost are allowed. Specify as many \fBrpcallowip=\fR settings as you like to allow connections from other hosts (and you may use * as a wildcard character).
.TP
\fBrpcport=\fR\fI'9902'\fR
Listen for RPC connections on this TCP port.
.TP
\fBrpcconnect=\fR\fI'127.0.0.1'\fR
You can use the GUI client or \fBppcoind\fR to send commands to a node running on another host using this setting.
.TP
\fBrpcssl=\fR\fI'1'\fR
Use Secure Sockets Layer (also known as TLS or HTTPS) for RPC connections. Example of OpenSSL settings used when \fBrpcssl\fR='1':
.TP
\fBrpcsslciphers=\fR\fI'TLSv1+HIGH:!SSLv2:!aNULL:!eNULL:!AH:!3DES:@STRENGTH'\fR
.TP
\fBrpcsslcertificatechainfile=\fR\fI'server.cert'\fR
.TP
\fBrpcsslprivatekeyfile=\fR\fI'server.pem'\fR
.TP
.SH MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
.TP
\fBgen=\fR[\fI'0'\fR|\fI'1'\fR]
Enable or disable attempt to generate peercoins. Don't enable this, as CPU mining is futile nowadays.
.TP
\fB4way=\fR[\fI'0'\fR|\fI'1'\fR]
Enable or disable use SSE instructions to try to generate peercoins faster.
.TP
\fBkeypool=\fR\fI'100'\fR
Pre-generate this many public/private key pairs, so wallet backups will be valid for both prior transactions and several dozen future transactions.
.TP
\fBpaytxfee=\fR\fI'0.01'\fR
Fee to pay per KB every time you send peercoins. Peercoin - unlike bitcoin - destroys the transaction fees, so there is little point to change this setting.
.TP
.SH USER INTERFACE OPTIONS
.TP
\fBmin=\fR[\fI'0'\fR|\fI'1'\fR]
Start the GUI client minimized.
.TP
\fBminimizetotray=\fR[\fI'0'\fR|\fI'1'\fR]
Start the GUI client minimize to the system tray.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ppcoind(1)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Micah Anderson <micah@debian.org> for the Debian system (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.

Harald Geyer <harald@ccbib.org> updated the text for peercoin.
